14-March'25
------Bit Manipulation------ 

Shift bit pattern left by 1:-->  Multiply by 2
Shift bit pattern right by 1:--> Divide by 2

(1<<31)>>1= -2^31/2
To preserve the sign of a signed int MSB bit(bit 1), will get replicated.


Airthmatic rightshift vs logical right shift. 
In Airthmatic left shift MSB or signed bit gets copied to preserve the sign ,specical behaviour signed int.
Logical right shit where MSB is not preserve. it moved and zero gets padded


-----Bit Masking------
Set:- OR with 1 
Clear Bit :-- AND with 0
Target the bits with shift operations.
Use mask and or with it to clear muliple bit position.


15-March'25

----NULL Pointer----
Pointing to memory location 0x0;
#define NULL (void*)0x0;
NULL pointer points to the 0th address location of memeroy 
if we do dereferencing it try to extract boot data that is generally forbidden.
SEGMENTATION ERROR when there is Higher level of O.S (Win,Linux), because O.S provide address region which is non zero.
process has to acess memory location only with that ranges.

no SEGMENTATION error in case of bare metal ,RTOS running, with MMU disabled. 
Because MMU prevent acess to the 0th location of memory.

In bare-metal programming (e.g., firmware, embedded systems, OS kernels), you have direct access to hardware, including:
Full control over memory addresses (RAM, ROM, peripherals).
No OS restrictions (unlike Linux/Windows, where user programs have protected memory).
The ability to access low-level registers and memory-mapped I/O (MMIO).


-----VoidPointer----
void * makes the function generic, allowing it to copy any data type.

----DMA---Dynamic Memory Allocation-----

Heap Management:- Generally HLOS,RTOS,Win they will have heap API.
keep track of which parts of memeroy is given,allocated to process and which part are left.

malloc(),free()

what if malloac fail ??
if malloac allocation fails it return null pointer. malloc fails immidiately if we assign value to address. 

memory leak:- Allocated but never freed! 

Dangling pointer:- Memory allocated and freed, but then using it( dereferencing it) is called Dangling pointer. 
Better after freed, assign p ==NULL;
